.\"
.\"
.\" Blame: Roland Dowdeswell <elric@imrryr.org>
.Dd October 5, 2009
.Os
.Dt KRB5_HOSTD.CONF 5
.Sh NAME
.Nm krb5_hostd.conf
.Nd configuration file for
.Xr krb5_hostd 8
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the configuration file for
.Xr krb5_hostd 8 .
The syntax is the same as the format for
.Xr krb5_keytab.conf 5 ,
and, in fact, in most installations one is a symlink to the other.
The syntax is a Perl snippet which is evaluated and is expected to
set the following variables:
.Bl -tag -width @allowed_enctypesxxx
.It @admin_users
is a list of users who are allowed to perform administrative functions.
That is, they can operate on other user's keytabs and avoid the system
encryption type policies.
.It @allowed_enctypes
is a list of acceptable encryption types that even administrative
users cannot over-ride.
.It $default_krb5_lib
is the default Kerberos library version if it is not specified.
.It $ext_sync_func 
is a code ref to a function which is called each time keys are
written into a keytab.
$ext_sync_func is called after the keys are written into the keytab
but before the keys are updated on the KDC.
$ext_sync_func is called under a lock which prevents
.Xr krb5_hostd 8
from trying to update the same user's keytab multiple times.
It is provided with the arguments:
.Bl -tag -width $princxxx
.It $ctx
the Kerberos context from Krb5Admin::C which can be used to have
a look at the keytab
.It $kt
the name of the keytab.
.It @keys
the list of keys being updated.
Each key is a hashref containing
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxx
.It princ
the name of the principal
.It kvno
the key version number of the key
.It enctype
the encryption type as an integer
.It key
the key data
.El
.El
.Pp
An exception must be thrown if the synchronisation fails.
.It %krb5_libs
is a hash mapping Kerberos library versions to an array ref of supported
encryption types.
.It %krb5_lib_quirks
is a hash mapping Kerberos library versions to an array ref of keytab
management bugs (quirks) that must be considered when constructing or
testing a keytab.
.It $use_fetch
is a boolean value which tells
.Xr krb5_hostd 8
whether it should attempt to fetch keys from the KDC.
By default the KDC will refuse these requests, so only enable this option
if you have configured the KDC allow the fetching of keys.
See
.Ar $allow_fetch
in
.Xr krb5_admind.conf 5 .
This value defaults to 0.
.It %user2service
is a hash mapping users to an array ref containing additional service
principals that the user may request to be placed in its keytab.
This mechanism will eventually be replaced with a more general mechanism
which allows for hostbased specification of this concept.
.It %user_libs
is a hash mapping users to an array ref containing a list of acceptable
Kerberos libraries which the user may use.
Administrative users may not over-ride this restriction.
.El
.Pp
Syntax errors will terminate parsing causing all subsequent configuration
to be ignored and so it is critical that they not be present.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr krb5_hostd 8 ,
.Xr krb5_keytab 8 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by Roland C. Dowdeswell.
