.\"
.\"
.\" Blame: Roland Dowdeswell <elric@imrryr.org>
.Dd Feb 3, 2012
.Os
.Dt KRB5_PRESTASH 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm krb5_prestash
.Nd manage/fetch prestashed tickets
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Elv
.Op Fl h Ar hostspec
.Ar command Ar arg Oo Ar arg ... Oc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to add, remove, query and fetch prestashed tickets.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indentxxxxxx
.It Fl E
expand hosts accoring to site-specific rules.
.It Fl h Ar hostspec
Connect to
.Ar hostspec
instead of searching for KDCs using the usual method.
A
.Ar hostspec
has a format of
.Oo Ar service@ Oc Ns Ar hostname Ns Oo : Ns Ar port Oc .
.It Fl l
operate on the local Kerberos DB.
.It Fl v
make the output a bit more verbose.
.El
.Pp
The commands are:
.Pp
.Bl -ohang -offset ind
.It fetch Ar REALM Oo Ar REALM ... Oc
will fetch all of the configured prestashed tickets for the current
host and install them in
.Pa /var/spool/tickets .
This command must be run as root as it must change the ownership of
the installed credentials caches to the appropriate users.
.It insert Ar principal Ar host Oo Ar host ... Oc
will prestash tickets for the principal
.Ar principal
on the provided list of hosts.
.It query principal Ar principal
will output the hosts on which
.Ar principal Ns 's
tickets have been prestashed.
The default output of this command is a newline separated list of hostnames.
If 
.Fl E
is specified, the hosts will be ``expanded'' before they are listed.
If
.Fl v
is specified, a table will be output displaying both the configured host
and the expanded target.
See
.Sx Host Expansion ,
below.
.It query host Ar host
will output the list of principal's whose tickets are are prestashed on
.Ar host .
The default output of this command is a newline separated list of Kerberos
principals.
If 
.Fl E
is specified, the hosts will be ``expanded'' before the query is made.
If
.Fl v
is specified, a table will be output displaying both the configured host
and the expanded target.
See
.Sx Host Expansion ,
below.
.It remove Ar principal Ar host Oo Ar host ... Oc
will remove prestashed tickets for the principal
.Ar principal
on the provided list of hosts.
.El
.Ss Host Expansion
Each site may provide a host expansion mechanism which allows for
host aliases to be used in
.Nm .
In this case, the flags
.Fl E
and
.Fl v
will cause queries to use host expansion.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr knc 1 ,
.Xr krb5_admind 8 ,
.Xr krb5_keytab 8 ,
.Xr krb5_prestash 1 .
