.\"
.\"
.\" Blame: Roland Dowdeswell <roland.dowdeswell@twosigma.com>
.Dd Aug 14, 2017
.Os
.Dt KRB5_HOST 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm krb5_host
.Nd kerberos host administration tool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Jlv
.Op Fl c Ar config
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Ar command Oo Ar arg ... Oc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to query hosts about their Kerberos configuration remotely
via the
.Xr krb5_hostd 8
daemon, or locally (with the
.Fl l
flag.)
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indentxxxxxx
.It Fl J
output is JSON formatted rather than human readable.
.It Fl c Ar config
specifies an alternate location for the configuration file:
.Xr krb5_hostd.conf 5 .
Defaults to
.Pa /etc/krb5/krb5_hostd.conf .
.It Fl h Ar hostspec
connect to
.Ar hostspec .
A
.Ar hostspec
has a format of
.Oo Ar service@ Oc Ns Ar hostname Ns Oo : Ns Ar port Oc .
.It Fl l
operate on the local host.
This is the default when run as root.
.It Fl v
make the output a bit more verbose.
.El
.Pp
The remaining arguments to
.Nm
are accepted from the shell and no further quoting is performed.
The first argument is considered to be the command and the remaining
arguments are passed to the command.
Some commands accept a list of key value pairs starting after a
particular position.
Some keys are denoted as ``set-based'' meaning that they manage a
set of values rather than an individual setting.
Set-based keys take a comma-separated list of values
.Pq interpreted as a set
and can also
take plus equals
.Pq +=
or minus equals
.Pq -=
to add or subtract elements from the set.
.Ss Local and Remote Diagnostics
The following commands are implemented:
.Bl -ohang -offset ind
.It list_keytab Ar user
displays the contents of a
.Ar user 's
keytab in the same format as
.Dq krb5_keytab Fl l .
.It query_ticket
shows all of the prestashed tickets that are on the host.
.It show_krb5_conf
returns information about the Kerberos configuration of the host.
.El
.Ss Managing Keytabs with Derived Keys
...
Commands that operate of keytabs with derived keys:
.Bl -ohang -offset ind
.It fetch_generator Ar generator
will fetch a generator from the KDC and store it locally.
This may have side effects such as updating all of the keys
on the host which are derived from the generator.
.It rm_generator Ar generator
removes the generator keys from the host.
This will not remove the derived keys.
.It list_generators
will output a list of the generators on the host.
.It mk_keytab Ar path Ar uid
creates a
.Dq keytab
which is essentially nothing more that the association
of a
.Ar path
with a UNIX
.Ar uid
which can then later be used to install keys.
.It rm_keytab Ar path
removes the association of
.Ar path
and
.Ar uid .
This will not remove the physical file.
.It list_keytabs
will list all of the configured non-default keytabs.
.It add_princ_to_keytab Ar princ Ar keytab
will add a principal
.Pq Ar princ
to a
.Ar keytab .
This includes deriving the keys from the generator
and installing the derived keys into the
.Ar keytab .
.It rm_princ_from_keytab Ar princ Ar keytab
This will remove the principal
.Pq Ar princ
from the
.Ar keytab .
This does not include removing the generated keys
from the keytab file.

.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility normally exits 0 on success, and exits 1 on failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr knc 1 ,
.Xr krb5_admind 8 ,
.Xr krb5_hostd 8 ,
.Xr krb5_keytab 8 ,
.Xr krb5_prestash 1 .
