.\"
.\"
.\" Blame: Roland Dowdeswell <elric@imrryr.org>
.Dd May 28, 2009
.Os
.Dt KRB5_ADMIND 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm krb5_admind
.Nd kerberos administration daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl MPv
.Op Fl D Ar kdb
.Op Fl S Ar sqlitedb
.Op Fl a Ar acl_file
.Op Fl c Ar conf_file
.Op Fl m Ar master
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the daemon end of the kerberos administrative service.
It expects to be spawned as an inetd-style service via
.Xr knc 1 .
.Pp
.Nm
when invoked will allow the client to create, fetch, change or remove keys.
It uses a simple ACL logic, namely that
.Ar host/<hostname>
is entitled to perform requests for
.Ar <service>/<hostname> .
Some additional limitations on the target principal may be defined.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indentxxxxxx
.It Fl D Ar kdb
specifies the location of the Kerberos DB.
Defaults to the location built into the Kerberos libriares.
.It Fl M
specifies that the master is the current host.
Should be used only for setting up test servers.
.It Fl P
specifies that
.Nm
will run in preforked mode, that is
.Nm
will expect that fd 0 will be a listening socket and will
serially accept and process incoming connexions.
.It Fl S Ar sqlitedb
specifies the location of the sqlite3 adjunct database where
.Nm
stores its additional schemas.
.It Fl a Ar acl_file
specifies the location of the ACL file.
Defaults to
.Pa /etc/krb5/krb5_admin.acl .
.It Fl c Ar conf_file
specifies the location of the configuration file.
Defaults to
.Pa /etc/krb5/krb5_admind.conf .
.It Fl m Ar master
specifies the hostname of the master KDC.
If a KDC which is not the master is asked to perform a write operation
it will deliver a redirect to the client which will break the connexion
and reconnect to the master.
Defaults to
.Pa /etc/krb5/master .
.It Fl t Ar timeout
sets the timeout for reading a command from the network to
.Ar timeout .
The default value is 300.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr knc 1 ,
.Xr krb5_admind.conf 5 ,
.Xr krb5_keytab 8 .
