.\"
.\"
.\" Blame: Roland Dowdeswell <elric@imrryr.org>
.Dd October 5, 2009
.Os
.Dt KRB5_ADMIND.CONF 5
.Sh NAME
.Nm krb5_admind.conf
.Nd configuration file for
.Xr krb5_admind 8
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the configuration file for
.Xr krb5_admind 8 .
The syntax is a Perl snippet which is evaluated and is expected to
set the following variables:
.Bl -tag -width %win_xrealm_bootstrapx
.It Ar $allow_fetch
is a boolean value which indicates whether
.Xr krb5_admind 8
is willing to allow clients to directly fetch keys from the Kerberos
database.
Setting this to true may be necessary at some sites but is generally
discouraged as it reduces certain security guarantees.
Also see
.Xr krb5_keytab 8 Ns 's
configuration variable
.Ar $use_fetch .
This value defaults to false.
.It Ar $allow_fetch_old
is a boolean value which indicates whether
.Xr krb5_admind 8
is willing to allow clients to directly fetch old keys from the Kerberos
database.  Old keys are those whose version number is smaller than
the highest key version number.  This makes it possible to recover
keys for outstanding tickets after creating a new key.  Key recovery
makes possible decryption of past traffic, and if possible should not
be enabled.  This value defaults to false.
.It Ar $deleg_to
is a list ref containing the services, i.e. component 0 of the
principal, to which delegation will be enabled by default.
This is accomplished by setting the +ok_as_delegate flag on
the principal as it is created.
.Ar $deleg_to
does not affect behaviour after the creation of the principal.
The creation of these services will be explicitly disallowed for
both logical clusters and username.hostname instances.
If
.Ar $deleg_to
is not specified in the configuration file, then it shall default
to
.Bq Qq host .
.It Ar $enable_host_subdomain
is a boolean variable that if true allows hosts to manage keys for services
whose instance is a direct subdomain of the host.  This supports multiple
service namespaces on the same machine provided the subdomains all map
to the same address (as with e.g. a wildcard *.hostname A record).
.It Ar $maxconns
is an integer which specifies the maximum number of connexions that
.Xr krb5_admind 8
will process when using the
.Fl P
option.
.It Ar %prestash_xrealm
is a hash that maps a principal's realm to a list of realms on which the
principal is allowed to be prestashed.
E.g.
.Bd -literal
	%prestash_xrealm = (
		'REALM1' => ['REALM2', 'REALM3'],
	);
.Ed
.Pp
means that principals in REALM1 may be prestashed on hosts that are in
REALM2 or REALM3.
.It Ar %win_xrealm_bootstrap
is a hash that maps a Windows principal to a list of host principals which
it may retrieve.
The Windows principal's components must be lower case.
This hash can be used when migrating from using Windows Active Directory
to provide Kerberos for UNIX hosts to a strictly UNIX KDC framework.
.It Ar %xrealm_bootstrap
is a hash which has keys that are Kerberos realms with values that are
an array ref of Kerberos realms.
If a host authenticates to
.Xr krb5_admind 8
with a host principal in the key's realm then it will be authenticated
to retrieve Kerberos host principals with a matching hostname in any of
the realms listed in the value.
E.g.
.Bd -literal
	%xrealm_bootstrap = (
		'REALM1'  => ['REALM2', 'REALM3'],
	);
.Ed
.Pp
means that
.Ar host/foo@REALM1
can retrieve keys for
.Ar host/foo@REALM2
and
.Ar host/foo@REALM3 .
.It Ar $timeout
is the timeout for reading a command from the network.
The default value is 300.
.El
.Pp
Syntax errors will terminate parsing causing all subsequent configuration
to be ignored and so it is critical that they not be present.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr krb5_admind 8 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by Roland C. Dowdeswell.
